Revived STIS: I.  
Improved Calibra4on of the STIS 
Next Genera4on Spectral Library. 
Don Lindler,  Sigma Space Corpora-on 
Sara Heap,  NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center. 
Abstract 
The Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) Next Generation Spectral 
Library (NGSL) contains UV-optical spectra (0.2 to 1.0 microns) of 374 stars 
having a wide range in temperature, luminosity, and metallicity (http://
archive.stsci.edu/prepds/stisngsl/). These spectra were obtained without 
centering the star in the 0.2 arcsecond slit. Mis-centering resulted in up to 10% 
errors in the calibrated flux. With the recent repair of STIS, we were able to 
obtain calibration data to characterize the wavelength-dependent throughput of 
the 0.2” slit versus the target’s position within the slit. To apply this information, 
we first determined the amount by which each NGSL star is mis-centered using 
the location of fringes in the long wavelength (G750L) spectra (compared to the 
fringes in a reference tungsten flat). We were then able to derive the absolute flux 
distribution of each NGSL star. 
Support for Program numbers HST-AR-11755 and HST-GO-11652 was provided 
by NASA through a grant from the Space Telescope Science Institute, which is 
operated by the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy, 
Incorporated, under NASA contract NAS5-26555. 
Reduc.on of the NGSL spectral 
 Improvements over the Standard ST ScI Pipeline Calibration 
1. New spectral trace files were produced using the average spectral 
y-position versus x-position for the 52X0.2E1 aperture for all of the 
NGSL stars.  CALSTIS adjust the trace by a constant offset for 
each individual observation. 
2. Improved background subtraction.  ST ScI pipeline uses only a 
lower background taken 300 pixels below the spectrum.  We use 
both an upper and lower background taken much closer to the 
spectrum (30 pixels). 
3. Larger extraction slit height (11 instead of 7) to improve overall 
photometric at the cost of some loss in S/N.  
4. Custom wavelength dispersion coefficients created for the E1 
aperture position. 
5. Custom sensitivity curves were created for the 52X0.2E1 aperture 
using observations of BD+75D325 centered in the aperture. 
6. Correction for mis-centering of the target within the slit using the 
G750L fringe flat to determine the target’s position. 
7. Zero-point wavelength correction using stellar lines.  (no Wavecals 
were taken with the observations) 
Measurement of the posi.on of the target within the 
52X0.2 aperture 
Fig. 2: Cross‐correla.on oﬀset between 
fringes in the tungsten ﬂat with the 
fringes in the stellar spectra vs oﬀset of 
the target from the center of the slit. 
Figure 2 illustrates that we can accurately measure the mis-centering of the target 
within the slit using the long wavelength fringes (Figure 1) in a tungsten lamp 
flat field exposure. 
Fig. 1: Tungsten Lamp ﬂat ﬁeld 
taken in the 52X0.2 aperture 
with the G750L gra.ng. 

Correc.ng the Long Wavelength G750L Fringes 
Fig. 3: Correc.on of the fringes in a stellar 
observa.on. 
Once the offset of the 
fringes have been 
determined, the can be 
removed from the stellar 
spectrum (Figure 3). 
Aperture Throughput Correc.on 
Fig. 4: Rela.ve aperture throughput versus posi.on of the target in the 52X0.2 slit 
Figure 4 shows the rela.ve throughput of the 52X0.2 aperture using calibra.on 
observa.ons of BD+75D325 placed at diﬀerent posi.ons within the slit.  Note that 
the point spread func.on is asymmetrical.  Mis‐centering in the +x direc.on can 
increase the throughput at the longer wavelengths. 
Fig. 5: Map of the rela.ve aperture throughput of the 52X0.2 slit versus wavelength 
and oﬀset from the center of the slit. 
Wavelength Zero Points 
Fig. 6: Interac.ve tool for determining the 
Wavelength zero points. 
The NGSL Spectra were taken 
without wavelength 
calibra.on lamp exposures.   
We use stellar features to 
determine the wavelength 
zero points for each of the 
three gra.ngs.  As a result, 
the ﬁnal wavelength scales 
are in the rest frame of the 
star .  
Correc.on of the G230LB in‐order gra.ng 
sca\er 
Fig. 7:  The G230LB has a signiﬁcant in‐order gra.ng sca\er .  We have constructed a 
model to remove this sca\er using the reddest stars.  The ﬁgure shows that a]er 
correc.on the G230LB ﬂux levels match an E230M observa.on.  
The stellar parameters (Lbol,  Teﬀ, ilog g, logZ, α, E(B‐V) ) 
are derived from NGSL spectra and distances  
via Castelli’s (2004)/Marcs (2008) model spectra and the Bas. evolu.onary 
isochrones.        
•  Make χ2 ﬁt to spectrum (Δλ=0.20 ‐1.00 
µ) for Teﬀ, logZ, and E(B‐V) 
•  Determine Lv range corresponding to V, 
π, eπ  
•  Calculate Lbol from BC(Teﬀ, log Z, E(B‐V))  
•  Determine range in distance (using new 
reduc.on of Hipparcos data, 2007, and a 
two sigma error for the parallax. 
• Derive allowed range in ilogg via 
comparison with Bas. evolu.onary 
models 
•  Make χ2 ﬁt to spectrum for best ilog g 
Allowed LogL Range 
Allowed LogG values 